To print all the paths of a binary tree
first we need to traverse it and we can use
the DFS to traverse the tree. While traversing the
tree,
Let us keep an array to store each node and
a length variable to track the path length
And whenever we reach the leaf node, we can print
the elements in the array. So let us see how it works
Let us create an array named path to store the
path elements and length variable path length
to track the path length. First insert the root node
and make path length as one
After that how DFS will work?
It will recursively call all the left sub tree
and once it reaches null it will start calling the
right sub tree.
So next node 50 will be added in the array and path length
becomes two. Next node 10 will be added in
the array and the path length becomes three and next it
will try to access the left child of node 10
which is null here
So here the right subtree call will be initiated
But the right child of this node is also null.
This means we have reached the leaf node and we
have all nodes in this path in the path array.
So we can just print the path array.
So the Path 100 50 10 will be printed. Next from
node 50,
The right recursive call will work
The new element 60 will be added next 100 50 the
path length will become three
Here the important thing to note is the new element position
in the path array depends on what we have in
the current call stack
Here in the current recursive call, that is the recursive
call from node 50
We already have elements 100 and 50 in the path and
path length is two
So the new element 60 will be added in the
third position
Next to 100 50 and then left and right recursive call
will work in node 60 but node 60
is a leaf node. So we can print the current
array till path length. So the second path 100 50 60
will be printed
Next the root node 100's
right recursive call will work. So node 200 will
be added and path length becomes two
And next node 150 will be added and path
length becomes three.
The right and left child of node 150
is null. So we can print the current path
So the third path 100 200 150 will be printed
next node 200's right
recursive call will work so the node 300 will
be added to path and the path length becomes three
node 300 is a leaf node
So the fourth path 102 103 100 will be printed
So using this approach you can try solving the problem.